New articles: when and how to use local https (#4353)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/when-to-use-local-https/index.md

---
title: When to use HTTPS for local development

> subhead: http://localhost is fie most of the time, but sometimes, you need to run your local development site with HTTPS. Here's when.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
subhead: Using http://localhost for local development is fine most of the time, except in some special cases. This post explains when do you need to run your local development site with HTTPS. 
```

---
title: When to use HTTPS for local development

> subhead:

Reviewer: Missing the subhead here

authors:
  - maudn

> date: 2020-12-07

Reviewer: The date needs updating too 😬

updated: 2020-12-07
hero: hero.jpg
tags:
  - blog
  - security
---

_In this article, statements about `localhost` are valid for `127.0.0.1` and `[::1]` as well, since they both describe the local computer address, also called "loopback address". Also, to keep things simple, the port number isn't specified._
_So when you see `http://localhost`, read it as `http://localhost:{port}` or `http://127.0.0.1:{port}`._

## Summary

> When developing locally, use `http://localhost` by default. Service Workers, web authentication APIs, and more, will work.
> But in some cases, you'll need HTTPS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When developing locally, use `http://localhost` by default. Service Workers, web authentication APIs, and more, will work.
However, in the following cases, you'll need HTTPS for local development:
```

> - Secure cookies need HTTPS.
> - Mixed-content debugging needs HTTPS.
> - HTTP/2 and later needs HTTPS.
> - Custom hostnames need HTTPS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Secure cookies
- Mixed-content debugging
- HTTP/2 and later
- Custom hostnames
```

  <figure class="w-figure">

>     <img src="./when-to-use-local-https.jpg" alt="List: when to use HTTPS for local development">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <img src="./when-to-use-local-https.jpg" alt="A list of case when you need to use HTTPS for local development.">
```

Author: Replaced with your suggestion % case*s

>     <figcaption class="w-figcaption">When to use HTTPS for local development</figcaption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <figcaption class="w-figcaption">When to use HTTPS for local development.</figcaption>
```

  </figure>

See [How to use HTTPS for local development](/how-to-use-local-https).

> ✨ This is all you need to know. Keep reading for more details!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
✨ This is all you need to know. If you are interested in more details keep reading!
```

## Why your development site should behave securely

> You want your local development site to behave as much as possible like your production website, to avoid running intro unexpected issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid running intro unexpected issues, you want your local development site to behave as much as possible like your production website.
```

So, if your production website uses HTTPS, you want your local development site to behave **like an HTTPS site**.

{% Aside 'warning' %}
If your production website doesn't use HTTPS, [make it a priority](/why-https-matters/).
{% endAside %}

What does this mean in practice? When developing locally, when can you use `http://localhost` (HTTP) and when do you need HTTPS? Let's take a look!

## Use `http://localhost` by default

Browsers treat `http://localhost` in a special way: **although it's HTTP, it mostly behaves like an HTTPS site**.

On `http://localhost`, Service Workers, Sensor APIs, Authentication APIs, Payments, and [other features that require certain security guarantees](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts/features_restricted_to_secure_contexts) are supported and behave exactly like on an HTTPS site.

## When to use HTTPS for local development

> But you may encounter special cases where `http://localhost` _doesn't_ behave like an HTTPS site—or you may simply want to use a custom site name that's not `http://localhost`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may encounter special cases where `http://localhost` _doesn't_ behave like an HTTPS site—or you may simply want to use a custom site name that's not `http://localhost`.
```

> **In these cases, you need to use HTTPS for local development.** Here is when this can happen:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can happen in the following cases:
```

  {% Aside 'gotchas' %}
  When it comes to setting `Secure` cookies locally, not all browsers behave in the same way! For example, Chrome and Safari don't set `Secure` cookies on localhost, but Firefox does. In Chrome, this is considered a bug.
  {% endAside %}

- You need to locally test or reproduce a behaviour specific to HTTP/2 or newer. For example, if you need to test loading performance on HTTP/2 or newer. Insecure HTTP/2 or newer is not supported, not even on `localhost`.
- You need to locally test third-party libraries or APIs that require HTTPS (for example OAuth).
- You're not using `localhost`, but a custom host name for local development, for example `mysite.example`. Typically, this means you've overridden your local hosts file:
  <figure class="w-figure">
    <img src="./hosts.jpg" alt="Screenshot of a terminal editing a hosts file">
    <figcaption class="w-figcaption">Editing a hosts file to add a custom hostname.</figcaption>
  </figure>

  In this case, Chrome, Edge, Safari, and Firefox by default do _not_ consider `mysite.example` to be secure, even though it's a local site. So it won't behave like an HTTPS site.

> - Other cases! This is not an exhaustive list, but if you encounter a case that's not listed here, you'll know: things will break on `http://localhost`, or it won't quite behave like prod. 🙃

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Other cases! This is not an exhaustive list, but if you encounter a case that's not listed here, you'll know: things will break on `http://localhost`, or it won't quite behave like your production site. 🙃
```

**In all of these cases, you need to use HTTPS for local development.**

## How to use HTTPS for local development

If you need to use HTTPS for local development, head over to [How to use HTTPS for local development](/how-to-use-local-https).

> ## Tips if you'e using a custom hostname

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Tips if you're using a custom hostname
```

> **If you're using a custom hostname, i.e. if you're editing your hosts file:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**If you're using a custom hostname, for example, editing your hosts file:**
```

> - Don't use a bare hostname like `mysite`. Because if there's a [top-level domain (TLD)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Top-level_domain) that happens to have the same name (`mysite`), you'll run into issues. And it's not that unlikely: in 2020, there are over 1,500 TLDs, and the list is growing. `coffee`, `museum`, `travel`, and many large company names (maybe even the company you're working at!) are TLDs. [See the full list here](https://data.iana.org/TLD/tlds-alpha-by-domain.txt).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Don't use a bare hostname like `mysite` because if there's a [top-level domain (TLD)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Top-level_domain) that happens to have the same name (`mysite`), you'll run into issues. And it's not that unlikely: in 2020, there are over 1,500 TLDs, and the list is growing. `coffee`, `museum`, `travel`, and many large company names (maybe even the company you're working at!) are TLDs. [See the full list here](https://data.iana.org/TLD/tlds-alpha-by-domain.txt).
```

> - Only use domains that are yours, or that are reserved for this purpose. If you don't have a domain of your own, you can use either `test` or `localhost` (`mysite.localhost`). `test` doesn't have special treatment in browsers, but `localhost` does: Chrome and Edge support `http://<name>.localhost` out of the box, and it will behave securely when localhost does. Try it out: run any site on localhost and access `http://<whatever name you like>.localhost:<your port>` in Chrome or Edge. This may soon be possible in Firefox and [Safari](https://bugs.webkit.org/show_bug.cgi?id=160504) as well. The reason you can do this, i.e. have subdomains like `mysite.localhost`, is because `localhost` is not just a hostname: it's also a full TLD, like `com`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Only use domains that are yours, or that are reserved for this purpose. If you don't have a domain of your own, you can use either `test` or `localhost` (`mysite.localhost`). `test` doesn't have special treatment in browsers, but `localhost` does: Chrome and Edge support `http://<name>.localhost` out of the box, and it will behave securely when localhost does. Try it out: run any site on localhost and access `http://<whatever name you like>.localhost:<your port>` in Chrome or Edge. This may soon be possible in Firefox and [Safari](https://bugs.webkit.org/show_bug.cgi?id=160504) as well. The reason you can do this (have subdomains like `mysite.localhost`) is because `localhost` is not just a hostname: it's also a full TLD, like `com`.
```

## Learn more

- [Secure contexts](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts)
- [localhost as a secure context](https://www.w3.org/TR/secure-contexts/#localhost)
- [localhost as a secure context in Chrome](https://www.chromestatus.com/feature/6269417340010496)

> _With many thanks for contributions and feedback to all reviewers—especially Ryan Sleevi,
> Filippo Valsorda, Milica Mihajlija and Rowan Merewood and Jake Archibald. 🙌_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: We in the tech writing team have discussed not including shout outs in posts, no hard rules yet but I personally recommend omitting them. It's not that relevant information to our readers and adds noise.
